Addressing issue #38325 (#38359)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmldialogelement/returnvalue/index.md

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

The **`returnValue`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement")}} interface is a string that stores the value provided when the {{htmlelement("dialog")}} is closed using the `.close(returnValue)` method.

## Value

> A string representing the `returnValue` of the dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A string representing the `returnValue` of the dialog.
Defaults to an empty string (`""`).
```

## Examples

The following example displays a button to open a dialog containing a Terms of Service prompt via the `showModal()` method.

> The script checks if the dialog is open or closed and updates the status text accordingly. It also handles the user's input by assigning the `returnValue` when the Accept or Decline button is clicked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The script handles the user's input by assigning the `returnValue` when the Accept or Decline button is clicked.
```

The "Decline" button sets the `returnValue` to "declined", while the "Accept" button sets it to "accepted". Additionally, closing the dialog (e.g., using the close event) updates the status text with the dialog's `returnValue`.

> Closing the dialog with the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key has no impact on the returnValue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Closing the dialog with the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key does not set the `returnValue`.
```

```html
<!-- Simple pop-up dialog box -->
<dialog id="termsDialog">
  <p>Do you agree to the Terms of Service(link)?</p>
  <button id="declineButton" value="declined">Decline</button>
  <button id="acceptButton" value="accepted">Accept</button>
</dialog>
<p>
  <button id="openDialog">Review ToS</button>
</p>
<p id="statusText"></p>

<script>
  const dialog = document.getElementById("termsDialog");
  const openDialog = document.getElementById("openDialog");
  const statusText = document.getElementById("statusText");
  const declineButton = document.getElementById("declineButton");
  const acceptButton = document.getElementById("acceptButton");

  function handleUserInput(returnValue) {

>     if (!returnValue) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (returnValue !== "") {
```

we should check for equality to `""` empty string, because `0` as a return value would satisfy that

Author: I agree 😊

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

The **`returnValue`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement")}} interface is a string representing the return value for a {{htmlelement("dialog")}} element when it's closed.

> You can set the value directly (`dialog.returnValue = "result"`) or by providing the value as a string argument to `dialog.close()` or `dialog.requestClose()`.

Reviewer: Just going to link for convenience:

```suggestion
You can set the value directly (`dialog.returnValue = "result"`) or by providing the value as a string argument to {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement.close()", "close()")}} or {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement.requestClose()", "requestClose()")}}.
```

{{ APIRef("HTML DOM") }}

> The **`returnValue`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement")}} interface is a string that stores the value provided when the {{htmlelement("dialog")}} is closed using the `.close(returnValue)` method.

Reviewer: The original is correct here, you can get or set the return value. Also you can close the dialog (when using `showModal`) with:

* `<button formmethod="dialog">Close</button>`
* ESC key
* light dismiss (clicking outside the dialog)

Author: I totally agree with that, you can set or get the property, but my concern is that the original phrasing says that the property performs an action (gets or sets). Maybe it's just me being pedantic or I don't understand interface properties correctly.

Reviewer: No, you're right, if we check the IDL https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interactive-elements.html#the-dialog-element:dom-dialog-returnvalue is what you get with `close()` and `requestClose()`, so we can improve on it:

```suggestion
The **`returnValue`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLDialogElement")}} interface is a string representing the return value for a {{htmlelement("dialog")}} element when it's closed.
You can set the value directly (`dialog.returnValue = "result"`) or by providing the value as a string argument to `dialog.close()` or `dialog.requestClose()`.
```

The script checks if the dialog is open or closed and updates the status text accordingly. It also handles the user's input by assigning the `returnValue` when the Accept or Decline button is clicked.
The "Decline" button sets the `returnValue` to "declined", while the "Accept" button sets it to "accepted". Additionally, closing the dialog (e.g., using the close event) updates the status text with the dialog's `returnValue`.
Closing the dialog with the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key has no impact on the returnValue.

```html
<!-- Simple pop-up dialog box -->
<dialog id="termsDialog">
  <p>Do you agree to the Terms of Service(link)?</p>
  <button id="declineButton" value="declined">Decline</button>
  <button id="acceptButton" value="accepted">Accept</button>
</dialog>
<p>
  <button id="openDialog">Review ToS</button>
</p>
<p id="statusText"></p>

<script>
  const dialog = document.getElementById("termsDialog");
  const openDialog = document.getElementById("openDialog");
  const statusText = document.getElementById("statusText");
  const declineButton = document.getElementById("declineButton");
  const acceptButton = document.getElementById("acceptButton");

>   function openCheck(dialog) {

Reviewer: Let's remove the openCheck so we can focus on what happens when closed only.

Author: Will do. Thank you.

    if (dialog.open) {
      statusText.innerText = "Dialog open";
    } else {
      statusText.innerText = "Dialog closed";
    }
  }

  function handleUserInput(returnValue) {
    if (!returnValue) {
      statusText.innerText += ". There was no return value";
    } else {
      statusText.innerText += ". Return value: " + returnValue;
    }
  }

  openDialog.addEventListener("click", () => {
    dialog.showModal();
    openCheck(dialog);
    handleUserInput(dialog.returnValue);
  });

  declineButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
    dialog.close("declined");
    openCheck(dialog);
    handleUserInput(dialog.returnValue);
  });

  acceptButton.addEventListener("click", () => {
    dialog.close("accepted");
    openCheck(dialog);
    handleUserInput(dialog.returnValue);

>   });

Reviewer: There's a few ways to do this, we could also do this if you like it:

```js
declineButton.addEventListener("click", closeDialog);
acceptButton.addEventListener("click", closeDialog);

function closeDialog(event) {
  const button = event.target;
  const returnValue = button.value;
  dialog.close(returnValue);
}
```

Reviewer: The nice thing about yours is we show passing a string explicitly as `.close("accepted")`

Author: I think your code is better, it removes the unnecessary duplication, and it's pretty clear. I can add this change.
